From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 40 recorded live
Thursday, November 12th, 2010. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by Tellerik
R D controls the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with George Kligerman
about X and a, an
indie games for the Xbox
three 60. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes
this week on handsome mints.
We've got George  who
is going to talk to
me about  and independent
gaming. How are you, sir?
No, pretty good. Thanks for
chatting with me about this,
you know, within the, the.net
development space, you know, I
feel like I'm a pretty
engaged community guy, and I
know a lot about different
community things, but the world
of X and a and
gaming and managed code on
the Xbox, is that just
a foreign thing to me?
And I'm kind of a
little ashamed in the sense
of, I try to be
plugged in as much as
I can, but, you know,
he just can't know everything.
So I said, George is
a guy I know who
will talk to me about
X and, and explain how
it is. I can write
C-sharp and run it on
my Xbox. So where do
I start? Will you start
by hitting the recently renamed
app hub forums. They used
to be the X and
eight forums, and there you
can pretty much get everything
you need to download and
get going. It's funny that
you haven't like touched on
and yet being a.net guy.
Cause I, in my head,
everyone wants to be a
game developer. So I find
it surprising that like everybody
who knows.net just hasn't jumped
on accident because really, if
you understand how to do.net
programming, it really is not
that much more difficult to
get robbed and running with
X and a once you
downloaded tools, you're in your
familiar environment of visual studio
programming, and you're very familiar
with C-sharp and there's a
few quirks you gotta kind
of learn about and understand
about game development. I mean,
if you're a wind farm
developer, a windows forms just
kind of sit there and
wait for an event to
happen. When you're programming for
a game, you basically have
things constantly happening cause you're
running in a tight loop.
And so that, that, that
takes some adjustment to get
used to like, but basically
most.net developers should be immediately
familiar and ready to go
within an hour, I would
say. And when I go
file new project, I'm doing
this inside of visual studio
express or do I have
to buy anything? Like how
much money am I actually
put out to get it
and running? You actually don't
have to invest in anything.
If you've got a PC
that run visual studio, you
can use visual studio express,
the default installation actually installs
express for you. If you
have the full blown visual
studio, if you're one of
those lucky guys that actually
has it already, you can
just add it on to
that as well and work
in your familiar professional environment.
But yeah, you can get
going with the express. There's
no no purchase and you
can actually make games for
your PC for free as
well. Oh, okay. So this
is the thing that everyone
talks about with X and
a, if I understand correctly,
I can write games for
the Xbox, for the PC,
for the Zune HD and
for the phone, Correct? Although
Zune basically with XMA 4.0,
the support for that was
dropped. Okay. So focus on
the phone, the X-Box and
the NPC. So if I
go and I say file
new project, do I tell
it that I'm making a
game for all of them?
Or is it a checkbox?
Because I suppose that make
me, It's basically a template
you're picking. So you're going
to pick a, I'm going
to make an, an X
and a PC game, a
annex and a Xbox game,
or next night windows phone,
seven game. Now, one of
the cool things they've got
about that is once you've
got started in one of
those projects, you actually can
just right. Click and convert
the project to one of
the other types as well.
So they've got a lot
of like little neat, nifty,
little tricks like that, where
you can start on the
VC and be like, Oh,
I want to make this
for the three 60 and
you know, target both platforms.
And you can pretty much
just right. Click on your
solution and say, make a
X-Box three 60 project. And
it just does it. I
can understand how that'd be
possible on the PC and
the Xbox. I mean, they're
there, they both have high
resolutions. And, but what kind
of things do I have
to consider that are different?
Like when you wrote your
first game for kids, did
you say, all right, I'm
going to be 10 ADP
or where do you, what
are the, some of, kind
of the initial decisions that
you have to make? Yeah,
that's, that's one of the
first things you want to
do is you want to
figure out, you know, what
your resolutions are that's I
mean, and then inputs, everything.
It changes pretty dramatically between,
you know, the PC and
the Xbox cause your, you
got your game pad, which
will work with, if they
have a USB game pack
plugged in, you know, Xbox
controller, but you're not really
going to be using the
keyboard on the Xbox. So
those are two of the
things that basically adjust a
lot. And the same thing
for the phone. I mean,
if you're, if you're talking
to all three platforms, you
probably still could you reuse
a lot of your code,
you know, your physics engines,
et cetera, but you're still
gonna be changing like, you
know, your resolution and your
input, but for the Xbox,
ideally what you want to
target is 1280 by seven
20. So that's pretty much
what, what background size you're
going for. And you want
to scale your images accordingly
to that. And that's actually
a fairly decent resolution for
the PC as well. Is
the Xbox not 10 ADP.
It is, you can develop
true 10 ADP, the 1280
by seven 20. What happens
with that? If you target
that particular resolution, the Xbox
will do all of its
scaling automatically for you. So
if people are running at
different resolutions, the Xbox can
handle that by default. And
so a lot of developers
would just target that cause
it's an easy route to
go. Okay. And when I
say file new Xbox game
and I hit  and
I'm on my PC developing
what happens, There's one little
step you have to do
before you hit at five.
Basically you have to have
your X-Box and your PC
talking to each other. Most
people do cause they've got,
you know, windows, media kind
of streaming across to their
three 60. If they're on
the same network, usually, you
know, it's pretty easy for
the PC to find the
three 60. And then there's
a little tool on the
Xbox that you will download
basically from the marketplace called
X and a connect. And
you will have that up
and running on your Xbox
three 60. And that's kinda
like a little it's at
certain weights for that communication
to start from your PC.
And so when you hit
at five, it will push
out and start talking to
that tool and pushing the
files across. And then suddenly
your wonderfully beautifully crafted game
is now running on your
TV and your three 16,
Do I have to like
unlock it? Or it's just
a matter of once I
have the X and a
connect. That's the, that is
the handshake that is required
in order to make them
talk, Correct. That's all you
need. And basically it runs
first. So anytime you wanna
start doing your development, you
will launch that first on
your three 60 and it
sits there waiting for the
computer to start talking and
now to do the development,
like there is a cost
involved, a there is a
a hundred dollars a year
fee to do three 60
development. So that's not completely
free. Okay. So when does
that, when is that required?
Is that when I want
to upload it to the
marketplace or is that when
I want to see them,
That's immediately when you went
to start pushing your games
across to your three 60.
So if you want to
debug and test your games,
which is pretty much recommended
before you release it to
the marketplace, you you've got
to pay that fee. I
see. So it kind of
gives you the right to
develop games in your three
60. The neat thing about
it is it's, it's a
99% discount from the traditional
cost of developing games on
your three 60. What do
you mean? Well, traditionally, if
you want it to develop
industry three 60, you've got
to buy an Xbox three
60 dev kit, and usually
only studios can get those
and the rumored price for
those is $10,000. Oh man.
That's the rumored price. I
don't know. Is that true?
Do we know From the
legal documents we've seen, there
was a court case, I
don't know, several years ago.
And so some of the
price pricing has got released
in the court documents. So
that is our, our estimated
price. We don't know if
it's changed since then, but
like that's what most of
us quote, So you pay
a hundred bucks and now
you're, you have a game
for kids. That's 80 points.
What is 80 points? That's
like nine, 9 cents. Yeah. That
translates to basically a dollar.
And how much, how much
of that dollar do you
get? I get 70% of
it. Cool. That sounds good.
Not too bad. That seems
to be the standard thing.
Right? Whoever's hosting the app
store. It takes 30%, Correct?
Yeah. It's, it's a pretty
decent deal. I mean, we've
had several people in the
community over the last few
years, basically able to quit
their jobs and do game
development full time. I wouldn't
say there's been a flood
of people that have been
able to do that, but
we definitely have our success
stories. How long has this
been around? I mean, I
know that the iPhone app
store's been around for a
long time, but how long
have we had an app
store in the context of
Xbox For the Xbox? It's
been two years X and
it has been around for
just over four years. And
then initially it was just
a PC development. And then
they did a little bit
of zoom development. And then
you could develop for your
Xbox three 60, but there
was no marketplace yet. And
then that kind of took
some time to get shaped
up and happening. And then
the marketplace has been running
for two years now. And
where does this show up
on the Xbox? I mean,
for very, there are probably
people who are listening, who
have downloaded game demos before,
and they know where their
game library appears, but they
may never have actually found
this section on their Xbox.
Where do I go to
find independent games on my
Xbox It's, it's actually in
the same place. So when
you're going to go buy
an Xbox live arcade game,
such as casual Crashers or
any of the bigger titles,
it's just a few more
menu items up. So there's
the Xbox live arcade games.
And then right above that
is the indie games. So
it's right next to the
big boys in the marketplace.
Was it always called indie
games? Initially the focus was
more community. So it was
called Xbox live community games.
But a lot of people
kind of felt that that
got confusing that maybe like
it was just hobbyists only
that were doing it, or
maybe, you know, it was
like, we're about socializing and
less about game development. So
there was kind of a
push from the community to
get that name changed. And
then Microsoft responded and changed
it to Xbox live indie
games. That's actually a very
non-Microsoft name. I like that
name that's way better than
Xbox live community games. Yeah.
It's a very cool name.
So what's the difference. I
did kind of like it
when it's community games cause
I'm really about the community.
So that was kind of
a good feeling too. So
the name change was better
overall. So what is the
difference between Xbox live arcade
games and indie games? Is
it just the difference in
how much you've paid? Like
why wouldn't everyone want to
make their game an indie
game and pay less money?
There's several reasons. So Xbox
live arcade games can charge
a higher price point. The
maximum price points that Xbox
live indie games can charge
is 400 Microsoft points, which
is about $5. So the
price ranges for Xbox live
into games are $1, $3
and $5. So $5 is
the most you can charge
for an Xbox live indie
game. Now Xbox live arcade
games can, can charge $20
and more for, for their
downloads. And then there's, there's
a couple other limitations as
well, file size. The maximum
size of the game. Xbox
arcade has a higher restriction,
the next box live indie
games. And then there's some
rather large restrictions such as
leaderboards and achievements, Xbox live
indie games can't do leaderboards.
So there's nowhere to have
a, you know, a global
high score and then Xbox
live in the games can't
do achievements. So which is
actually rather large with the
gaming crowd. And one of
the reasons that a lot
of us feel that X-Box
live in games don't sell
as well as they do
is that most gamers really
like that achievement system. And
when you buy an Xbox
live into game, it doesn't
attribute to your gamer score
to your achievements at all.
I see in gamer score
leader boards and achievements sound
like the kind of thing
that would make a good
game become, you know, viral
as it were and really
popular exactly. Is there an
example of an indie game
that made the leap over
from Indy to arcade? We've
never had a game that
started out on Xbox live
indie games, make the transition,
but we've had people that
started out developing with X
and a purely that were
kind of targeting Xbox live
indie games. But before they
released, they were able to
go to Xbox live arcade.
We've had, I think four
examples of that so far,
typically it's, it's surrounds there's,
there's, what's become pretty much
an annual contest, although they
they'd never said they're going
to do it annually called
dream build, play that Microsoft
hosts and the winner of
that has the Microsoft has
the right to offer them
Xbox live arcade contract. And
we've had winners over the
past few years that have,
have won that and move
on textbox lab arcade. So
their game is still developed
an X and a, but
they're outside of the indie
game section and they can
charge the higher price points
and add it at achievements
and have gamer score. And
they're, they're much bigger successes
in that arena. Are, is
there a way to tell
if a game has written
an X and a, I
mean like could like splinter
cell be written an X
and a, and I don't
know it, or is it
only indie games? I haven't
had this completely confirmed, but
the rumor is, is that
there are more games written
in XMA than we realize.
I'm not sure why publishers
don't want to talk about
that or game developers. I
want to talk about that.
But we, we did find
out that Lucas arts released
a game called lucidity and
we believe it's written next
day, simply because when, when
you download it off of
steam, it installs some exnayed
DLLs. You can't tell that
on the Xbox obviously, but
when you download PC versions
of their games, you can
kind of get a hint
that way. So there are
games that may be written
the next day. It's just
not become widespread. I'm not
really sure what the political
battle there is. And if
I'm going to write my
game so that it works
on both windows and Xbox,
is it literally like right
wrong, write once, run anywhere,
or do I have to
build two separate versions of
the executable and package it
up differently for windows and
exploits? You can write once
you'll, you'll build it twice,
but you can still work
out at one solution. And
your source code is shared
between the two. There are
some kind of like Getches
and caveats. You got to
pay attention to the garbage
collection on the three 60
is horrendous. So even though
you've got, you know, a
quad core machine that you're
working with, the it's running
the compact framework and its
version of garbage collection is
just horrendous. And so you
definitely don't wanna like start
working on your PC game
and be near completion and
then suddenly get the idea,
Oh, I might want to
turn this into a three
60 game. You definitely want
to be working on them
in parallel and testing on
both platforms at the same
time, because there will be
times where you've got to
like make some adjustments and
changes based on the performance
on one or the other.
Hmm. When you say horrendous,
like, okay, I assume that's
pretty bad. And the assumption
of course, is that the
Xbox has like, you know,
I don't know, half a
gig of Ram and a
slower processor from five years
ago, but like your kid's
game that I bought has
a lot of stuff going
on. I mean, there's a
bunch of objects getting created
on the screen. It's pretty
frantic, right? Let's say that
you discover that garbage collection
is a problem. What can
you as a programmer do
to fix that? It, it's
kind of interesting. Cause I
think Gainesville is one of
those things that probably has
taught me more as a
business coder than anything else,
because I've actually used a
lot of these tricks and
techniques from game development and
business coding now. But things
like, you know, for each
loops, there's, there's a lot
of like boxing and unboxing
that happens, which for game
development, I didn't even really
like examine boxing and unboxing
a variables and understood, you
know, what's happening here, but
it's those types of things.
So, you know, you might
use, you know, a different
type of loop or create
structure instead of classes in
certain cases. And then what's
really interesting when you're starting
to streamline stuff and getting
rid of garbage and watching
optimization is you actually start
to like inline things rather
than like calling methods and
creating methods. So you actually
start doing a lot of
like bad programming practices in
order to optimize things Interesting.
Those are the types of
tricks you're going to use
to increase speed. But one
of the things we tell
people is never pre optimize.
So you usually write your
code as you would normally.
And then you only start
optimizing what you've discovered a
problem. So you do a
lot of testing and benchmarking
and before you start making
your terrible, Hi, this is
Scott coming to you from
another place in time. Are
you using agile practices to
manage your software development? There's
lots of tools in the
market that manage the steps
of a project, but most
of them focus on individual
roles, get ready for a
solution that caters for the
success of the whole team.
Guys at Tellerik introduced team
pulse. It's an agile project
management tool. That'll help you
gather ideas, estimate plan, track
progress in a common workspace.
Finally companies, regardless of their
size can use a lightweight
and convenient tool that makes
all the stakeholders work as
a United team. Even if
they're in different countries by
combining intuitive user interface and
the power server light team
poles removes the roadblocks that
you typically face and applying
agile in an effective manner,
no more lost data, no
disparate systems, no lack of
critical analytics regarding the health
and philosophy project. See if
yourself get a free copy
for five users in one
project at tellerik.com/team pulse. And
please do thank Tellerik for
supporting Hansel minutes on their
Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t L
E R I K Keller.
We do appreciate it. There
wouldn't be a Hansel minutes.
If there wasn't teller helping
us, what is what's considered
a, and this, this is
very subjective, but what's considered
like to be the crown
jewel of the indie games.
Like what's the one game
or two games where you
go, wow. I can't even
believe that this was done
by a regular person and
not a game studio. Hmm.
That one's hard for me
to answer. Cause I think
I've kind of lost the
luster of like looking at
studios and seeing them with
something that we can't do
anymore. It's like once you've
done game though. Wow. When
you're watching the game, you're
like, Oh, I know how
they did that. That makes
sense. I could have done
that. I mean, we have
our, our crown jewel of
the communities just because it's
like the biggest runaway success
story, but I don't know
that like looking at the
game and you're super impressed,
like what X and they
can do. It's just probably
the most fun game when
you've played in awhile. I
made a game with zombies
in it is basically just
a dual stick shooter where
you're destroying a bunch of
zombies, but the whole experience
is just so incredibly well
done. I mean, like from
like the music is hilarious
and funny, it's a guy
singing a song and the,
you know, the effects are
incredible and he's got the
music time to the game
and they're strobe lights flashing
and time to the music.
And, and it's like a,
a game that it's only
13 minutes and 37 seconds
long, which is also a
nice, fun, little geek joke
and only a dollar, which
he mentioned about five times
in the song. And I
think he's made over $200,000
on that game now. Wow.
It's kind of our, our,
our success story. And he's
one of the few guys
that he wondering build, play
the first one and got
his Xbox live arcade contracts
that he's actually got games
on Xbox live arcade as
well. So he can, he's
probably our biggest success story.
So if I was going
to say like, we have
a, an indie, crown Juul,
skull studios, James Silva's, the
guy would be who I
would say represents the, you
know, our crown jewel. Well,
it's interesting because if you
look at the screenshots for
this thing, I made a
game with zombies in it.
It's not, I mean, as,
from a screenshot perspective, it's
like, okay, a child, a
child drew these, these zombies,
you know, it looks very
kind of simple, which I
think gets to your point
about, you know, it's, it's
more about gameplay and style.
I mean, he's got a
song and he's got music
and it's, it's synchronized. These
things are really subtle. I
mean, it's not, yeah. Can't
judge How all that ties
together that made it so
fun. Is that available on
PC also? Do you know?
No, he doesn't have it
available on PC it's it's
a three 60 only currently.
No. Why would someone want,
want only on the three
60? It seems like, again,
speaking as a person who
has never made a game
like this, I would want
my game to be available
as many places as possible.
So if I've got all
this kind of intellectual property
and I've done all this
work, I would think, gosh,
now that I've got this
game, I've made a couple
of hundred thousand dollars on,
let's put it on a
phone and let's put it
on the PC, Right? The
phone. I think a lot
of people are gonna be
considering simply because Microsoft has
built a marketplace around the
phone. There is no marketplace
for the PC. And that's,
that's the number one reason
why developers haven't moved over
into the PC realm, Forex.
And I, at least there's,
there's a huge setup, cost
that most home computers don't
have the X and a
redistributable installed on them. So
the install package alone is
kind of confusing and hard
for most people to get.
Right. And then there's just
no central distribution center. So
there's a lot of overhead
for developers trying to like
they could create, you know,
their own checkout store and
host all that themselves. But
like that's a lot of
extra work. Yeah. That's a
really good point. I mean,
people kind of ask what,
what is so important about
the app store, but I
mean, I just went to
X-Box dot com. I clicked
on indie games in the
marketplace and then I just
shorted by bestselling of all
time. And then I can
see right there, there's my
maybe gamer zombies in it.
And for me to have
to go and find that
on the web and download
it in one set up
and all that kind of
stuff. And I didn't actually
realize this until, till recently
that I can actually go
there on my PC now
hit download, and then go
to my three 60 later
and it'll be waiting for
me. Yup. Yeah. That's a
great little feature too. Like
when you've got like some
huge game that came out
recently that you're excited about
and you can start in
the morning and just like
start to download. And then
when you get home there,
it is waiting for you
to play that's. That's fantastic.
I noticed that the second
most popular game, or one
of the most popular games
looks just initially looking at
it looks like something I
would not want to play
a baby maker extreme. This
looks like a South park
episode and possibly The artwork
is a lot like South
park. That's one of those
interesting ones. The gameplay is
basically a physics type gameplay
where you're trying to get
this baby. That's just been
birthed to bounce off as
many objects as possible to
go the distance. So it's
the title's eye catching. The
cover. Art is eye catching
and the gameplay is actually
relatively fun and it's pretty
well polished. I think the
guy was a genius for,
you know, just striking that
Gore to people. Cause people
go, maybe make it extreme.
What is that? And then
it already gets him a
download. Yeah, exactly. Just because
we want to know what
it is And then he
gets them in there because
like the gameplay is fun.
So I downloaded it, expecting
it to be absolutely horrible,
but it's really well polished.
It's actually a lot of
fun. Interesting. Are there controls
from the Xbox perspective? Like
if I don't know, major
Nelson or somebody in charge
goes and says, hi, this
is offensive. We're not going
to put that in the
marketplace. Do people get kicked
out of the marketplace or
not allowed in for various
reasons? Cause you always hear
about iPhone people who can't
be in the marketplace for
some reason. So The, for
the Xbox three 60 and
the Xbox live indie game
marketplace, it's a peer review
system, which means that everyone
else like myself, who released
kids games on the systems,
we review other people that
are trying to submit games
and we kind of review
them for technical defaults and
anything that's kind of inappropriate
for Xbox live. And there's,
there's a very like strict
list of things that can
and cannot be things that
are kind of on the
fence or that the community
can agree. One, you might
get some reviewers for like,
no, this is fine. I
don't see this as being
offensive. They may pass it
and then it can move
on to the marketplace. And
at that point, the option
is, is that people can
record it for reviews and
it might get cool then
later. So Microsoft kind of
stays out of the entire
process. Microsoft actually is even
allowed to look in the
review or play test threads
at all. So they really
only see the games once
they've hit the marketplace. So
it's really up to the
community to kind of police
that and kind of set
the set the standard. That's
impressive. I mean, as a
concept, I didn't realize that.
So you, you personally can
vote on this with the
community and say, this is
good or bad. Correct. And
it's not so much good
or bad cause we try
to take this subjectiveness out
of it. So if I
see somebody's game and I'm
like, this is absolutely horrendous,
you know, it looks like
a kid drew everything in
here and actually it could
have been a kid who
drew everything in there. I
can't actually like comment on
like whether the game is
good or bad. I can
only comment on whether it
has offensive material or it
crashes. So we try to
make things like more black
and white rather than subjective.
Okay. One thing I noticed
in looking at the top
30 games, a bunch of
them start with the term
avatar, avatar, paintball, avatar, drop
avatar, golf, avatar, Showtime show
down that can't be a
coincidence. There's at least 10
avatar games in. So the
Xbox live indie game community
supports all types of developers.
Some people are in it
because it's something that they're
passionate about. It's a dream.
They're, you know, they're working
on their dream game. Some
people are just like the
novelty of it. You know,
there are some high school
kids they're putting it together,
you know, and they think
it's a great game. Some
people are really going on
about this as a business
and other people are playing
to what the community, what
the consumer seems to want.
And avatar games are selling
right now. So they spend,
you know, a couple of
weeks throwing together some new
type of avatar game and
they push it out to
the marketplace and they seem
to be selling. I mean,
they, they stay fairly high
in the top downloads list.
And so if people are
buying them, people are gonna
make them. Well, definitely seems
like some of these avatar
games are actually very, very
well rated. I mean, I
look at just because something's
in the top, it doesn't
mean that I'm going to
download it, but then I'll
see that, well, this has,
you know, for like avatar
Ninja has four stars and
then you looked at the
screenshots and you say, Oh,
this actually looks like someone
put a little bit of
work into it. Yeah. Yup.
It kind of varies. It's
one of the, actually the
kind of like points of
discussion we're having in the
community right now is that
X-Box live indie games has
been around now for two
years. But if you talk
to people, they either don't
know about it or they
say, Oh, that's where all
those massage apps or avatar
games are when really there's
like a wide variety of
games we have over. I
think it's almost like 1,050
games in the marketplace currently.
So there's really something in
there for everybody. And there's
a lot of very polished
games, but it's it's how
do we make that perception
that's been achieved over the
last two years and you
know, partially rightfully so. Cause
I mean, anybody can release
anything they want. And so
when you hit the X
box live in the game
marketplace and you look at,
you know, new releases and
any given week when we're
releasing, we're releasing basically three
games a day on average
right now from the community.
And on any given day,
you know, of those three
games, it's not really expected
that, you know, all three
of those games will be
highly polished and it works
of art. So when someone
goes into the store to
look at these games and
they're obviously gonna look at
the new releases, cause that's
what they're used to doing
with Xbox live arcade games.
They're going to see, you
know, maybe one decent looking
game out of a list
of, you know, 25 to
50. And so it's like,
you know, how do we
manage that perception? And so
we're kind of talking with
Microsoft right now and talking
to in the community, you
know, how, how can we
change this? You know, maybe,
maybe new releases doesn't make
sense for people to land
on me. That should not
be the landing page because
that's not like, you know,
it does, it doesn't like
equal what it does for
Xbox live arcade. Cause Xbox
live arcade has a very,
you know, it's Microsoft controls
like the release schedule for
X box lubricate. They try
not to flood the market
with too many Xbox live
arcade games. They're polished games
that went through a very
intensive, you know, QA system.
Whereas, you know, Xbox elevating
the game, anybody can make
anything. So it's a different
type of experience. And we
got to kind of figure
out how to, how to
change what people were seeing.
Yeah. I've noticed that myself
sitting in my, in my
living room and looking at
these games and, and to
be clear to the listeners,
I don't know any of
these peoples, if I mention
a particular game or not,
this is just my opinion.
It's nothing else. But like
I see a game here
that says it's called minor
dig deep. And the, the
box, you know, quote unquote,
the box shop looks like
a child drew it and
I'll say, well, this is
a lame looking box top.
I think this looks lame.
And then I'll look at
the screenshot and I'll say,
well, that looks actually kind
of nice. So I balanced
my perception of the game
based on like in this
case, low points for box
shot, which sounds ridiculous. Like
what does the box have
to do with the gameplay?
But it does affect what
you think about like this
person put effort into it.
It's like, Oh yeah, Definitely.
It's actually one of the
things I recommend to people
that if they're gonna invest
as an indie game developer,
if they want to pay
for anything, pay for your
box art. So spend a
couple hundred dollars to pay
for some decent looking cover
art. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And
then, like, for example, I'm
looking at this inside and
it's almost like the box
is a ripoff of like
a classic sports game, like
Madden. Right. And when I
say rip off, I don't
mean like rip off. I
mean more like let's say
homage, but it's like, wow,
okay. This person is effectively
saying with their box art,
that lacrosse is a cool
game that electronic arts has
ignored. So I'm making a
lacrosse game and then you
look at the screenshots and
it looks like that's exactly
what it is. Then you
balance it with the fact
that it's four and a
half stars rated by a
lot of people. And you
say, well, there you go
here. Here's a perfect example
where someone, someone, a developer
felt that the regular marketplace
was not serving him and
went and fixed that problem,
which I think is pretty
cool. Yeah. I mean, it's,
it's one of the best
things about indie games is
that you can basically attempt
anything. I mean, it's, it's
a perfect sandbox to try
anything you want to, there's
a game out. It, it
doesn't exist. You have the
power to go make that.
It's interesting though, that you
spend so much decision making
process on, you know, Oh,
look at the box. Art,
look at the rating, look
at the stars because most
of the games are a
dollar. It's strange that like
people on their phones do
all these impulse buys and
don't seem to really care.
But when they're sitting down
in their living room, looking
through their Xbox three 60,
somehow that desire to do
impulse buys goes away or
they don't seem to think
about it. I've seen the
other day, a major Nelson
was tweeting about how this
big game was on sale
and it was $25. And
I replied to him, I
was like, that's 25 indie
games. So you're telling me,
you can buy this, you
know, studio produced game that
for on sale for $25.
And you're going to get
more fun than potentially 25
original creative polished games that
no one seems to know
or talk about. Like it
it's so foreign to me
that we're not getting the
impulse buys. We think we
should be getting like, we're,
we're trying to figure out
what's going on there as
well. Why, why do people
not think about that? Why
don't we get impulse buys?
No, that's a really good
question. I mean, I have,
you know, I've got an
iPhone and I've spent probably
10 bucks a month on,
on, on 99 cent games. But
when I go to the
marketplace, you know, I mean,
honestly you can tell your
there'll be listening to this.
You can tell your, your
indie game friends that, that
box art is significant, the
title of the game and
the box art. And then
also when you have a
lot of these things, like
I'm looking at the indie
games and I see, I'm
just kinda like scrolling through
this giant creative, like 90
games. I see a lot
of games for like how,
you know, how to meet
women. And like you said,
massage games, just things that
seem very, very childish and
kind of unprofessional. And then
after you scroll past like
10 or 20 of those,
you'll, you'll, you'll find something
that looks like a, a
real game, you know? Yeah.
The penny arcade guys talked
about it. Like it's going
to like a Bazaar or
like bargain Ben dumpster diving
type thing. Like basically you
have to like wander around
and look around the corner.
And then often the corner,
you see this great gym,
but like you, it's the
unfortunate thing about the way
the marketplace is for us
right now is that you
actually have to hunt for
the good ones. They're not
just right there in your
face. I mean, we could
list the good ones. We
all know the good ones,
but it's hard to get
that to the, and it's
because that new releases list
is what people see. I
mean, well, we have no
way of guaranteeing that the
releases are going to be
what's what's, you know, what's
great. And it's also interesting
because I mean like the,
the X-Box market is like,
the demographic is just so
skewed and people were making
the games that people were
buying currently. Some of our,
you know, our great games
just aren't getting purchased. And
so what's happening is good.
Developers are leaving the system
or looking elsewhere, or, you
know, they don't see the
point because people don't want
to buy those date games
and all those avatar games
and, you know, fart apps.
And so it's, how do
we get like the, the
more professional, you know, market
who's going to spend, you
know, lots of money to
start making the purchases on
some, some of these decent
games to attract more developers
so that like the, the
cycle goes the other way.
If the marketplace is broken,
if the way, and if
the way people find these
games is, is broken in
the sense of like I'm
scrolling through, you know, the
website's pretty good though. I
mean, I've got like best-selling
today, top rated, but these
are all things that I
can use right now to
make a decision. You know,
I can just say sort
by top rated and just,
just using box art as
a, as a, as a,
you know, a personal litmus
test. If I go and
switch it to top rated
immediately, everything with a nice
box are that is highly
rated. It looks good shows
up. I mean, all that
stuff that we just talked
about that we don't want
to see does disappear. Right.
That's what we keep saying
is that we think that
has a lot to do
with his, and the other
thing that you're, you're on
the web right now, most
people don't use the web
interface. Most people use the
Xbox dashboard. That's just my
point on the web interface.
I can see 90 games
toss sorted by top rated
and then buy them here.
But on the webs, on
the, on the Xbox, I
see like five and all
I see is box. Yeah.
Well, that's one of the
neat things with the new
dashboard update is that now
you will see 50 ratings.
We're only seeing, you know,
five to six at the
time, depending on how big
your TV is, but there
is the list is now
54 scrolling. So that's, that's
a nice change for us,
but we still need to,
you know, kind of change,
you know, what, what, what
people were seeing first when
they hit that marketplace. Absolutely.
Absolutely. Do you think you're
going to leave because of
this? I mean, I mean,
I don't know. I assume
you're still having fun or
you would have stopped by
now. No, I mean, I
love this. I mean, I
love this community. I love
what I do. I mean,
I get to make games
for the three 60. I
mean, it's like the, I
don't know, since I was
a young kid, I mean,
the whole reason I even
got into development was for,
for games. So I didn't,
I don't think I ever
really truly believed it would
happen. And then ex and
they came along and it
was kind of like a
flu club. Like a lot
of things just lined up
in the right time. And
no, I love this community.
There's so much to do.
I mean, I'm writing a
book for a windows phone
seven right now for game
development. So, I mean, I'm
planning on being around and
involved quite a bit. One
of the cool things about
this is the X and
a team, the developers themselves
are super active and involved
in the community. One of
the lead developers for the
team is actually at one
of the highest posters on
our question and answer forum.
So I think that's fairly
rare. I don't know of
too many other Microsoft technical
communities that have like the
developer actually being with the
highest posters. Very cool. So
it's definitely a team that
listens and I don't know
that the community just, it's
a really interesting and neat
experience. Like just being among
all these indie game developers
who are, you know, everyone's
coming at it from different
angles. A lot of these
guys are trying to make
a go of it as
a full time business and
they hang out on Twitter
all the time. They're pretty
involved in the forums and
it's a great, great support
network. I mean, counsel ideas
off each other, helping each
other Polish the games. So
it's definitely created, I'm planning
on being a part of,
for quite awhile. All right.
Well, thanks so much for
talking to me today and
folks can check out George's
website and blog and Twitter,
like linked to him from
X and a development.com. And
I'll also add a bunch
of the sites that we
talked about in the show
notes. Thanks a lot for
talking to me today. No,
thank you. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.